Running ngen on CONUS with Routing: Build, Realization Configs, Routing Config, and Documentation (#805)
NOAA-OWP/ngen: doc/NextGen_ON_CONUS.md

| Realization | Number of CPUs | Initialization Time (s) | Computation Time (s) | Total Time (s) |
| ------------- | :-----: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth.json | 32 | 2618.6 | 737.4 | 3356.0 |
| conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth_noah.json | 32 | 1360.1 | 2143.9 | 3504.0 |
| conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth_noah_pet.json | 32 | 3204.0 | 2106.5 | 5310.5 |
| conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth_noah_pet_cfe.json | 32 | 1214.9 | 4069.2 | 5284.1 |
| conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth_noah_pet_smp.json | 32 | 1453.4 | 3087.0 | 4540.4 |
| conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth_noah_pet_smp_sft.json | 32 | 3245.7 | 3808.1 | 7053.8 |
| conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth_noah_pet_smp_sft_cfe.json | 32 | 1354.7 | 5283.1 | 6637.8 |

The abreviation used for submodule names in the table:
* noah - noah-owp-modular
* pet - potential evapotranspiration
* cfe - Conceptual functional equivalence
* smp - SoilMoistureProfiles
* sft - SoilFreezeThaw 

# Run Computation with Topmodel

To be added

# Run Computation with Routing

> To run computation on CONUS with routing, we need to build the executable with routing option turned on. This can be done using the build script displayed in the [Build the Executable](#build-the-executable) and set `-DNGEN_WITH_ROUTING:BOOL=ON`. Make sure that Python is also on, and you can run the script to build the `ngen` executable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run computation on CONUS with routing, we need to build the executable with the routing option turned on. This can be done using the build script displayed in the [Build the Executable](#build-the-executable) section, and ensure both `-DNGEN_WITH_PYTHON:BOOL=ON` and `-DNGEN_WITH_ROUTING:BOOL=ON` are enabled. Then, you can run the script to build the `ngen` executable.
```

> You also need to build the `t-route` submodule. First, as the automatically downloaded `t-route` is out of date, to get the latest version, you need to remove the old `t-route` and run `git clone https://github.com/NOAA-OWP/t-route` in the `extern` directory. For building `t-route` in general, we refer user to the documentation [PYTHON_ROUTING.md](PYTHON_ROUTING.md) for essential details. We just want to add some additional discussion here to make the process easier. Note that there are more than one ways to build the `t-route`. Do `cd t-route`, then run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to build the `t-route` submodule. First, as the vendored `t-route` submodule is out of date, to get the latest version, you need to remove the old `t-route` and run `git clone https://github.com/NOAA-OWP/t-route` in the `extern` directory. For building `t-route` in general, we refer to the documentation [PYTHON_ROUTING.md](PYTHON_ROUTING.md) for essential details. We just want to add some additional discussion here to make the process easier. Note that there is more than one way to build `t-route`. Do `cd t-route`, then run:
```

```
FC=mpif90 NETCDFINC=<path-to-netcdf-include-directory> ./compiler.sh
```

> This will let you to use the NetCDF library that you want to build `t-route`. Alternatively, you can edit the `compiler.sh` file, note these comment lines in the script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will let you use the NetCDF library that you want to build `t-route`. Alternatively, you can edit the `compiler.sh` file, note these comment lines in the script:
```

```
#if you have custom dynamic library paths, uncomment below and export them
#export LD_LIBRARY_PATHS=<paths>:$LD_LIBRARY_PATHS
```

You can uncomment the second line above and that put your NetCDF library in the path. In addition, change this line:

```

>     export NETCDFINC=/usr/include/openmpi-x86_64/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export NETCDFINC=/usr/include/openmpi-x86_64/
```

```

to the path to your NetCDF include directory, i.e.

```

>     export NETCDFINC=<path to your NetCDF include directory>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export NETCDFINC=<path to your NetCDF include directory>
```

```

Then, run the command:

```
FC=mpif90 ./compiler.sh
```

> After successfully building the `t-route`, you can run `ngen` with routing. Note that we have several realization configuration files and the `routing_config_CONUS.yaml` file for running `ngen` with routing. The realization configuration file and `routing_config_CONUS.yaml` specify where the input and output files are. For routing, we assume the existence of a `stream_output_dir` directory for writing output files. You need to do `mkdir stream_output_dir` before running `ngen`. With that, we can run an example with the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successfully building `t-route`, you can run `ngen` with routing. Note that we have several realization configuration files and the `routing_config_CONUS.yaml` file for running `ngen` with routing. The realization configuration file and `routing_config_CONUS.yaml` specify where the input and output files are. For routing, we assume the existence of a `stream_output_dir` directory for writing output files. You need to do `mkdir stream_output_dir` before running `ngen`. With that, we can run an example with the command:
```

```
mpirun -n 32 ./cmake_build_mpi/ngen ./hydrofabric/conus.gpkg '' ./hydrofabric/conus.gpkg '' data/baseline/conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth_noah_pet_cfe_trt.json conus_partition_32.json
```

If your run is successful, you should see the directory `stream_output_dir` populated with output files in NetCDF format with each file corresponding to each hour between 2016-01-01 to 2016-01-10.

In the following table, we display the CPU timing information for a few realizations that we tested:

| Realization | Number of CPUs | Initialization Time (s) | Ngen Computation Time (s) | Routing Computation Time (s) | Total Time (s) |
| ------------- | :-----: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------: |
| conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth_noah_trt.json | 32 | 958.1 | 2288.4 | 3694.1 | 6940.6 |
| conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth_noah_pet_cfe_trt.json | 32 | 1069.8 | 4606.3 | 4474.1 | 10150.2 |
| conus_bmi_multi_realization_config_w_sloth_noah_pet_smp_sft_cfe_trt.json | 32 | 2142.0 | 5632.4 | 4510.3 | 12284.7 |

> * trt - abrevitation for t-route
> * For all other abreviations, see [Resource Usage](#resource-usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* trt - abbreviation for t-route
* For all other abbreviations, see [Resource Usage](#resource-usage).
```

Author: Incorporated all corrections as suggested.
